README.md, before:

vSwitch
---

vSwitch is a simple multi-protocol virtual switch that switches ethernet traffic between different Layer 2 tunneling protocols.

vSwitch abstract different protocol as `Port` and do L2 switching among connected ports. There are two types of port: `Port` and `PortEnumerator`. A `Port` is an abstraction of a single "tunnel." It can be a TAP interface on the vSwitch host, a socket file descriptor, or anything that act likes a file descriptor. A `PortEnumerator` is an abstraction of a switch extension. `PortEnumerator` generate ports dynamically while running. `PortEnumerator` could be something like a connection-based socket (e.g., TCP), that will constantly create new port as the client connects.

Currently, the following `Port`s and `PortEnumerator`s are available:

|Name|Type|Arguments|
--|--|--
tap|`port`|`--dev dev_name`
tcp|`portenum`|`--bind server_address --port server_port`
tls|`portenum`|`--ca ca_path --cert cert_path --key cert_key_path --bind server_address --port server_port`

The `tap` and `tcp` port are pretty self-explanatory. `tls` is a port that accepts TLS TCP connection. It authenticates the client with CA (i.e., the client needs to have a valid certificate signed by CA). 

The TLS port client, `client-tls` also authenticate server with CA. In addition to that, `client-tls` will also check for the server's common name and will refuse to connect if the common name does not match.

### Installation

Dependency: `libssl`

Download and build vSwitch with the following command:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/magicnat/vswitch
$ cd vswitch
$ make -j
```

If the build succeeded, you should find vSwitch server & client binaries under `vswitch/bin/`.

### Usage

```
./vswitch --help
./vswitch --list-ports
./vswitch [--add-port type [args...]] ...
```

`./vswitch --help` prints the help message above, `./vswitch --list-ports` lists all available `Port`s and `PortEnumerator`s. Lunching `vswitch` with one or more `--add-port` arguments will start the switch with ports you specified. 

For example, to start a vSwitch that open a TAP interface on vSwitch host with name `tap-vswitch`, and a TLS switch extersion, use the following argument:

```
# ./vswitch --add-port tap --dev tap-vswitch --add-port tls --ca certs/ca.crt --cert certs/server.crt --key certs/server.key --bind 0.0.0.0 --port 1443
```

To connect to the TLS switch extension with `client-tls`, use the following argument (assume server is at `172.30.0.1`): 

```
# ./client-tls -d tap-client -s 172.30.0.1 -p 1443 -n server-name.local -C certs/ca.crt -c certs/client.crt -k certs/client.key
```

### Development

Adding new protocol support to vSwitch is simple. What you need is to implement a `Port` and/or a `PortEnumerator`. The definition of these two interfaces can be found in `server/port-enumerator.h` and `server/port.h`. 

Once you have your Port created, you can use it with vSwitch. The `vswitch` binary is just a CLI wrapper. To create a vSwitch programmatically, create a `Switch` instance, then use `Switch::AddPortEnumerator` or `Switch::Plug` to have `PortEnumerator` or `Port` install to the switch. 

Here's an example that creates a simple vSwitch with TCP and TAP port:

```C++
#include "switch.h"
#include "tap-port.h"
#include "tcp-port-enumerator.h"

int main (int argc, char **argv) {
    Switch s;
    TapPort tap ("dev-vswitch");
    TcpPortEnumerator tcp ("0.0.0.0", 1234);

    // plug tcp extersion switch into main switch
    s.Plug(&tcp);

    // plug tap interface into main switch
    s.Plug(&tap);

    // join the switching thread.
    s.Join();

    return 0;
}
```

### License

MIT

Commit message:

readme: update w/ tls-port auth userpass

README.md, after:

vSwitch
---

vSwitch is a simple multi-protocol virtual switch that switches ethernet traffic between different Layer 2 tunneling protocols.

vSwitch abstract different protocol as `Port` and do L2 switching among connected ports. There are two types of port: `Port` and `PortEnumerator`. A `Port` is an abstraction of a single "tunnel." It can be a TAP interface on the vSwitch host, a socket file descriptor, or anything that act likes a file descriptor. A `PortEnumerator` is an abstraction of a switch extension. `PortEnumerator` generate ports dynamically while running. `PortEnumerator` could be something like a connection-based socket (e.g., TCP), that will constantly create new port as the client connects.

Currently, the following `Port`s and `PortEnumerator`s are available:

|Name|Type|Arguments|
--|--|--
tap|`port`|`--dev dev_name`
tcp|`portenum`|`--bind server_address --port server_port`
tls|`portenum`|`--ca ca_path --cert cert_path --key cert_key_path --bind server_address --port server_port --mode mode`

The `tap` and `tcp` port are pretty self-explanatory. `tls` is a port that accepts TLS TCP connection. There are two modes available: `cert` and `userpass`. Cert authenticates the client with CA (i.e., the client needs to have a valid certificate signed by CA), and `userpass` authenticates the client with PAM authentication with username/password pair provided by the client.

The TLS port client, `client-tls` also authenticate server with CA. In addition to that, `client-tls` will also check for the server's common name and will refuse to connect if the common name does not match.

### Installation

Dependency: `libssl`

Download and build vSwitch with the following command:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/magicnat/vswitch
$ cd vswitch
$ make -j
```

If the build succeeded, you should find vSwitch server & client binaries under `vswitch/bin/`.

### Usage

```
./vswitch --help
./vswitch --list-ports
./vswitch [--add-port type [args...]] ...
```

`./vswitch --help` prints the help message above, `./vswitch --list-ports` lists all available `Port`s and `PortEnumerator`s. Lunching `vswitch` with one or more `--add-port` arguments will start the switch with ports you specified. 

For example, to start a vSwitch that open a TAP interface on vSwitch host with name `tap-vswitch`, and a TLS switch extersion with certificate mode, use the following argument:

```
# ./vswitch --add-port tap --dev tap-vswitch --add-port tls --ca certs/ca.crt --cert certs/server.crt --key certs/server.key --bind 0.0.0.0 --port 1443 --mode cert
```

To connect to the TLS switch extension with `client-tls`, use the following argument (assume server is at `172.30.0.1` and has CN `server-name.local`): 

```
# ./client-tls -d tap-client -s 172.30.0.1 -p 1443 -n server-name.local -C certs/ca.crt -c certs/client.crt -k certs/client.key -m cert
```

### Development

Adding new protocol support to vSwitch is simple. What you need is to implement a `Port` and/or a `PortEnumerator`. The definition of these two interfaces can be found in `server/port-enumerator.h` and `server/port.h`. 

Once you have your Port created, you can use it with vSwitch. The `vswitch` binary is just a CLI wrapper. To create a vSwitch programmatically, create a `Switch` instance, then use `Switch::AddPortEnumerator` or `Switch::Plug` to have `PortEnumerator` or `Port` install to the switch. 

Here's an example that creates a simple vSwitch with TCP and TAP port:

```C++
#include "switch.h"
#include "tap-port.h"
#include "tcp-port-enumerator.h"

int main (int argc, char **argv) {
    Switch s;
    TapPort tap ("dev-vswitch");
    TcpPortEnumerator tcp ("0.0.0.0", 1234);

    // plug tcp extersion switch into main switch
    s.Plug(&tcp);

    // plug tap interface into main switch
    s.Plug(&tap);

    // join the switching thread.
    s.Join();

    return 0;
}
```

### License

MIT
